Learning outcomes and evaluation criteria.

1. Recognizes the elements of databases analyzing their functions and assessing the usefulness of management systems.

Evaluation criteria:

a) The different logical storage systems and their functions have been analyzed.

b) The different types of databases have been identified according to the data model used.

c) The different types of databases have been identified based on the location of the information.

d) The usefulness of a database management system has been recognized.

e) The function of each of the elements of a database management system has been described.

f) Database management systems have been classified.

2. Design normalized logical models interpreting entity/relationship diagrams.

Evaluation criteria:

a) The meaning of the symbology of the entity/relationship diagrams has been identified.

b) Graphic tools have been used to represent the logical design.

c) The logical design tables have been identified.

d) The fields that are part of the logical design tables have been identified.

e) The relationships between the tables of the logical design have been identified.

f) The key fields have been defined.

g) Integrity rules have been applied.

h) Normalization rules have been applied to an appropriate level.

i) Constraints that cannot be captured in the logical design have been identified and documented.

3. Performs the physical design of databases using wizards, graphical tools and the data definition language.

Evaluation criteria:

a) The physical storage structures have been defined.

b) Tables have been created.

c) The appropriate data types have been selected.

d) The key fields in the tables have been defined.

e) All the restrictions reflected in the logical design have been implemented.

f) It has been verified by means of a set of test data that the implementation conforms to the model.

g) Wizards and graphic tools have been used.

h) The data definition language has been used.

i) The data dictionary has been defined and documented.

4. Consult the stored information using assistants, graphic tools and the data manipulation language.

Evaluation criteria:

a) The tools and sentences to carry out queries have been identified.

b) Simple queries have been made on a table.

c) Queries have been made that generate summary values.

d) The contents of several tables have been queried using inner joins.

e) The contents of several tables have been queried using outer joins.

f) Queries with subqueries have been made.

g) The advantages and disadvantages of the different valid options to carry out a specific query have been assessed.

5. Modifies stored information using wizards, graphical tools, and the data manipulation language.

Evaluation criteria:

a) The tools and statements to modify the content of the database have been identified.

b) Data has been inserted, deleted and updated in the tables.

c) The information resulting from the execution of a query has been included in a table.

d) Measures have been adopted to maintain the integrity and consistency of the information.

e) Scripts have been designed to carry out complex tasks.

f) The functioning of the transactions has been recognized.

g) The changes produced by a transaction have been partially or totally cancelled.

h) The effects of the different record blocking policies have been identified.

6. Performs information assurance tasks, analyzing them and applying safeguard and transfer mechanisms.

Evaluation criteria:

a) Graphical and command-line tools for managing backups have been identified.

b) Backups have been made.

c) Backups have been restored.

d) Tools for importing and exporting data have been identified.

e) Data has been exported to various formats.

f) Data with different formats have been imported.

g) The information provided by the error messages and the log files has been correctly interpreted.

h) Information has been transferred between management systems.



